major Reisman you are ordered by Allied
command to select 12 general prisoners
convicted by courts martial and
sentenced to be executed or serve
lengthy prison terms for murder rape
robbery and other crimes of violence and
you will deliver them secretly behind
enemy lines in France to undertake a
mission of sabotage that could change
the course of the war the 12 men will be
known as the Dirty Dozen
Lee Marvin as Major John Reisman there's
a little of major Reisman in every man's
as Marvin tough and unyielding yet
compassionate I think it's the best role
I've ever been asked to play you've all
volunteered for a mission which gives
you just three ways to go either you can
follow in training and be shipped back
here for immediate execution of sentence
or you can follow up in combat in which
case I will personally blow your brains
out or you can do as you're told
in which case you might just get by now
you hold it right there this war was not
started for your private gratification
and you can be damn sure that this army
is being run for your personal
convenience either Ernest Borgnine as
general worden I'm tired of seeing
generals portrayed as desk-bound
pen-pushers says Borgnine so I've played
warden as a rough professional soldier
Robert Ryan has Colonel Everett - herb
Reed there were officers like breed says
Ryan who could never suffer the rules
broken Reed and Pendleton major iyslah's
compliments of provided he captured or
destroyed Jimmy Brown as Napoleon
Jefferson Jefferson is any man fighting
for recognition against the odds as
brown I think I understand him pretty
well
John Cassavetes
as Victor Franco says Cassavetes Franco
is a heavy hoodlum forced to heroism by
circumstances beyond his control weak on
that mission we all get killed that's
what they want that's what they want
Trini Lopez as him Ennis he's crawling
with hate
Charles Bronson as wladislaw the last
guy in the world could expect to be a
hero Telly Savalas
as archer maggot maggot is a maniacs as
Savalas his religious fanaticism can
never be moderated or quelled it is a
constant danger Clint Walker as Samson
Posey an Indian with war paint smeared
on his soul
train them excite them arm them and turn
them loose on the Nazi High Command
jumpers
Oh
you